I’ve gone through the first half so far (up to case studies).  
This is good work, though the main critique I’d have is that the level of explicitness is 
excellent for a dissertation, but not necessarily right for a journal paper.

X first paragraph: three sentences started with Gradient-based.  Could probably be reworded.

X Gradient-based optimization methods are well suited for high dimensional problems, [
    particularly if numerically exact derivatives are provided]

X because they are highly susceptible to local optima - sort of true.  can use a 
globalization strategy, e.g., multistart though I guess you address that later.

X could probably reference some of our multistart work also.

X your bib is missing almost all titles 
    -- just the format - should be fixed when reformatted

X simple wake models seek to capture are wake diameter and velocity deficit - what about 
spread angle?  Is that what you mean by diameter?

X some sections in this intro are rather wordy.  could be more concise and would likely be 
    clearer at the same time.  For example. these two sentences say basically the same thing: 
    “During optimization, the spaces between wakes translate to locally optimal locations for 
    turbines. However, it is often the case that there are more optimal turbine locations that 
    are not found by the optimizer because the turbines are effectively stuck in locally optimal 
    locations.”  And both the sentence prior (The fluctuations of wind speed as turbines move 
    in and out of the wakes during optimization are primarily responsible for the multi-modal 
    nature of the WFLO problem.) and the sentence after say pretty much the same thing 
    (designed to overcome the problem of local optima caused by wind speed fluctuations as 
    wind turbines move in and out of the wakes)

X a relatively convex design - unimodal.  convex is even more stringent than unimodal

X optimization results using WEC were even more significant when re-calculated using LES - 
    the phrasing of this doesn’t sound correct to me.  not clear what you are trying to say.

X Wake spread is analogous - this is confusing because you say there are two things (both in 
    intro and at beginning of 2): diameter and deficit, but now you are introducing spread.

X what is leading coefficient?

X same in 3 you change from wake diameter to wake spread

X The wakes create bumps in the design space. Gradient-based algorithms cannot get over the 
    bumps on their own because they only like to go downhill. By spreading and combining the 
    wakes (or bumps) the little bumps are covered up by the larger ones, reducing the number 
    of individual bumps. A gradient-based optimization algorithm can then follow the slope of 
    the conglomerate bump, over local optima in the real design space, and proceed to a better 
    solution. - I’d get rid of all of this.  Too colloquial for a paper, it doesn’t flow from 
    previous parts, and is not necessarily accurate in high dimension space - what is a bump?  
    Also not true that gradient-based can’t go over “bumps” also.  Depends on scale of the 
    bumps, what happens in the line search, etc.

X through the Jacobian - which Jacobian?  are you thinking of the Hessian?  or even just 
    gradients themselves?  Jacobian has to do with the constraints.

X a hybrid of 2 and 3 that is accomplished by multiplying the wake diameter at an estimated 
    point of far wake onset and allowing the wake to follow an angled line from the initial 
    wake diameter to the expanded far wake diameter - not the clearest.

- also do we even need to talk about the other methods if they don’t end up being useful.  
    Can say you looked at them and leave this paragraph, but not sure it’s worth taking up 
    results on them.  You had a good intuitive explanation for why the diameter was 
    effective - I think based on the ideas of gaussian continuation.  Could just explain 
    that, and explain that you explored these in detail, but I’d save those results for a 
    dissertation not a journal paper where you really want to focus on what works well.
    -- I'm not sold on this concept. I think it is important to show results that were not 
        positive. I really wish more papers did show them because people may have the same 
        idea and could be saved a lot of time by knowing it had already been tested and
        did not work, or why others thought it did not work.
    -- ok, I think I'm on board because no one is going to implement them since they did not
        work. If they want details, they can go to my dissertation.

X We also used various other models necessary for combining wakes and calculating wind farm AEP. - vague.

X eq 10 doesn’t need its own line.  Just do it inline.

X could probably cut out the figure and much of the description of Jensen as it is pretty 
    standard.  I suppose some of it is helpful for your later discussion (though it means f
    lipping back and forth).
    -- I'll reviewed, but I dissagree. The Jensen paper leaves some things fairly vague that
        take some time to figure out. The vague things are related WEC and the
        exact location of the cosine factor.

X Fig 3: why are these functions of wind speed?  power coefficient and thrust coefficient 
    are functions of tip-speed ratio.  Alternatively I suppose you could use power and 
    thrust, but using one dimensional and one not is strange.
    -- using Ct and Cp as functions of wind speed is a pretty common simplificcation 
        when using simple wake models. We've done it this way in every paper I've been 
        involved in. I know they are actually functions of tip-speed ratio, but they are 
        often provided and used as functions of wind speed. This is even done in the IEA 37
        plant ontology.
        (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wind-turbine_aerodynamics, 
        https://github.com/IEAWindTask37/ontology/blob/master/plant/plant_energy_turbine.yaml)

    aning  5:27 PM 20210422
    Yeah I know people do that. But it’s not necessarily good practice to perpetuate. 
    Makes things less transferable. It’s a controls mindset not a fluids one.
    You could at least say something like for a given rotation speed schedule.

    aning  5:28 PM
    You could at least say something like for a given rotation speed schedule.

X don’t really need eq 11.  standard, can just say you used a power law with exponent x and 
    referrence height/speed of x and x.
    -- I'm keeping this because I found "power law" in other papers to be vague and require
        extra effort on my part to nail down specifically.

X 13 is standard, as is 12.  not sure they are needed.  I guess might be helpful in the 
    context of describing wake loss.
    -- leaving as I think they are helpful.

X are coupled...however..are expressed in separate terms, it is possible to adjust one 
    without impacting the other - don’t quite follow.  if coupled how do you adjust separately?

X 4.1.5 doesn’t really say anything new.  same with 4.2.3

X why is section 6 separate.  Its one paragraph - shouldn’t be an entire major section of the paper. (edited) 

aning  4:59 PM
had a moment to read a bit more (up to 7.3)

X For each case, we used the Vestas V-80 2MW wind turbine. - already said

X We created 199 pseudo-random starting wind farm layouts - not clear why.  I know what you 
    are referring to - a multistart strategy, but that is never said.  You talk about 
    optimization way later, so this seems out of place.

X why do you maximize AEP instead of minimize wake loss.  I know its mathematically the 
    same (though certainly not the same from a scaling perspective, I suspect wake loss is 
    much better scaled), but it is confusing since you introduced wake loss.
    -- I formulated everything in AEP originally and ran results that way. Then I learned
        about comparison using wake loss and deccided to present my results that way 
        because it provided a nice baseline with no problems like those that happen if 
        comparing to a base layout. I'll clarify in the paper.

X might add justification for why a circle - the make it easier for the LES

X why is section 6 separate.  Its one paragraph - shouldn’t be an entire major section of 
    the paper.  Here’s where you should talk about multistart.  Should also does combine 
    sections 6 and 7.

X Python should be capitalized

X table 2 says and scaling, but I don’t think there is any scaling.  This is tolerance in 
    what?  infinity norm of Lagrangian?  These are relatively large though I guess that’s 
    ok if comparing to alpso.

- why do you show all the alpso convergence histories, but not snopt.  
    All of these necessary?  What specifically are you trying to show from each?

X While it may be noted that each optimization run with ALPSO is similar to running 30 
    optimizations using a gradient-based algorithm in population size - needs rewording.  
    also not quite true that it is the same, but I know what you’re getting at.

aning  4:35 PM
rest of paper:
- 7.3: could probably remove this from the paper and put in your dissertation instead.  
    There are a lot of details here that don’t really matter for the journal paper, and in 
    general journal papers are less interested in the methods that didn’t end up being 
    fruitful. Those details are however excellent to include in a dissertation.  This 
    combined with earlier explanation would shorten by a couple pages.  I’d probably 
    leave a short explanation of the three approaches and the conclusions that the minimum,
    mean, and standard deviation of wake loss was lowest for WEC-D.

X a thought going back to 7.2 but I’d make it clear that when explaining that you are doing 
    a full set of 200 optimizations of alpso that this is a benefit for alpso (don’t want 
    someone to take away the impression that it would penalize it with function calls or 
    something)

- could combine 7.3-7.5 to WEC tuning as they all end up basically the same parameters, just 
    additional explanation as to why.

X does not even overlap - obvious from graph, but put in to words that SNOPT+WEC is better

X 1 \times 10^0 should be just 1 or 10^0 if you really want.

X what is outer iteration again?
    -- ALPSO introduces a new parameter, inner iterations, that is not found in a typical 
    particle swarm method. The inner iteration parameter controls how many times 
    the unconstrained problem formulation is run before the Lagrange multipliers and 
    penalty factors (used to enforce the constraints) are updated. The outer iteration 
    count is then used to represent how many sets of inner iterations are run.

X These are just small steps taken that appear to have no change in the figures.  - what does that mean?
    -- I think my explanation was incorrect. I'm not sure what is correct, but not critical
        for this paper, so I removed it.

X We have adjusted wake loss values to be calculated by - Wake loss values are calculated by

X the convergence rate was still higher for SNOPT alone. - that isn’t clear to me
    -- true, that was an old idea that came out despite new results. I've corrected.

X The difference in convergence rate for the gradient-free algorithm is likely due - don’t 
    you mean gradient-based?

X This is a feature of the method and demonstrates the effectiveness of WEC at allowing 
    optimization algorithms to escape local optima. - does that necessarily mean one is 
    escaping a local optima because the function value stays flatter?  seems like the 
    opposite could just as easily happen

X and only slightly overlapped, as compared to the SNOPT results without WEC (reference 
    the figure here)

X  that the results are not a product of random chance - add something like: , but rather 
    demonstrate actual improvement in the wake loss.

X the SNOPT+WEC results had high outliers that skewed the mean upward. - but the mean is 
    lower than the median...
    -- looks like I read the wrong line during interpretation

 X of 3.058 [percentage points] compared

 X while SNOPT alone runs only two - should explain that most of those 7 optimizations are 
    very quick as you are warm starting.  should probably also give some summary indication 
    of how much more cost.  e.g., these results take 10-20% more function evaluations or 
    whatever it is
    -- I'll need to do some more work here.
    -- added more results, discussion, and clarification to the paper regarding function calls 

X Because WEC results have smaller standard deviations - This should then become an Also 
    to make it clear that it may require less time overall  - or even just explicitly say that.

X not sure we should mention the NSF funding anymore.  That was now so long ago, and all 
    associated reports are closed, so that there is no real benefit to included it.  
    Plus you haven’t been funded under that for a long time.

X one other thought, if you are removing some other WEC alternatives I would spend a little 
    more time discussing the parameters you tune in WEC.  That part felt a bit rushed to me and 
    hard to digest (they aren’t at the top of my head as I’m sure they are for you)

4:36
Great work.  Results are nicely presented.  Mainly just wording at this point.    
Based on my reading I think there is enough that is cuttable that you’ll probably fall 
within normal word count limits. (edited) 
